[docs][notifications] guides overhaul (#33063)
expo/expo: docs/pages/push-notifications/sending-notifications.mdx

---
title: Send notifications with the Expo Push Service

> sidebar_title: Send notifications with the Expo Push Service

Author: removed

---

> title: Send notifications with Expo Push Service
> sidebar_title: Send notifications with Expo Push Service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Send notifications with the Expo Push Service
sidebar_title: Send notifications with the Expo Push Service
```

description: Learn how to call Expo's Push Service API to send push notifications from your server.
---

import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';
import { CODE } from '~/ui/components/Text';

The [`expo-notifications`](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications) library provides all the client-side functionality for push notifications. Expo also handles sending push notifications off to FCM and APNs which then send them to particular devices. All you need to do is send a request to Expo's Push API with the `ExpoPushToken` you obtain with [`getExpoPushTokenAsync`](/versions/latest/sdk/notifications/#getexpopushtokenasyncoptions).

> > If you'd rather build a server that communicates with APNs and FCM directly, see [Send notifications with FCM and APNs](/push-notifications/sending-notifications-custom/). It's more complicated than using Expo Push Service but gives a bit of extra control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you'd rather build a server that communicates with APNs and FCM directly, see [Send notifications with FCM and APNs](/push-notifications/sending-notifications-custom/). It's more complex than using Expo Push Service, but allows finer-grained control, and full access to all FCM and APNs features.
```

}
```

> **You must check each push receipt, since they may contain information about errors you need to resolve.** For example, if a device is no longer eligible to receive notifications, Apple's documentation asks that you stop sending notifications to that device. The push receipts contain information about these errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**You must check each push receipt, since it may contain information about errors you need to resolve.** For example, if a device is no longer eligible to receive notifications, Apple's documentation asks that you stop sending notifications to that device. The push receipts contain information about these errors.
```

- `InvalidCredentials`: Your push notification credentials for your standalone app are invalid (for example, you may have revoked them).

>   - **Android**: Make sure that you have correctly uploaded the server key from the Firebase Console as specified in [uploading FCM V1 server credentials](/push-notifications/fcm-credentials).

Author: not sure how this happened, undid it

## Delivery guarantees

> Expo makes the best effort to deliver notifications to the push notification services operated by Google and Apple. Expo's infrastructure is designed for at least once delivery to the underlying push notification services. It is more likely for a notification to be delivered to Google or Apple more than once rather than not at all, though both are uncommon but possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expo makes a best effort to deliver notifications to the push notification services operated by Google and Apple. Expo's infrastructure is designed for at least one attempt at delivery to the underlying push notification services. It is more likely for a notification to be delivered to Google or Apple more than once rather than not at all; however, both these results are uncommon.
```
